Cards in Magic: The Gathering have a consistent format, with half of the face
of the card showing the card's art, and the other half listing the card's
mechanics, often relying on commonly-reused keywords to simplify the card's
text.[citation needed] Cards fall into generally two classes: lands and
spells.[citation needed] Lands produce mana, or magical energy. Players usually
can only play one land card per turn, with most land providing a specific color
of mana when they are "tapped" (usually by rotating the card 90 degrees to show
it has been used that turn); each land can be tapped for mana only once per
turn.[13] Meanwhile, spells consume mana, typically requiring at least one mana
of a specific color. More powerful spells cost more, and more specifically
colored, mana, so as the game progresses, more land will be in play, more mana
will be available, and the quantity and relative power of the spells played
tends to increase. Spells come in several varieties: non-permanents like
"sorceries" and "instants" have a single, one-time effect before they go to the
"graveyard" (discard pile); "enchantments" and "artifacts" that remain in play
after being cast to provide a lasting magical effect; and "creature" spells
summon creatures that can attack and damage an opponent as well as used to
defend from the opponent's creature attacks; "planeswalker" spells that summon
powerful allies that act similarly to other players.[14][15] Land,
enchantments, artifacts, and creature cards are considered "permanents" as they
remain in play until removed by other spells, ability, or combat effects.[15]

Players begin the game by shuffling their decks and then drawing seven
cards.[16] On each player's turn, following a set phase order, they draw a
card, tap their lands and other permanents as necessary to gain mana as to cast
spells, engage their creatures in a single attack round against their opponent
who may use their own creatures to block the attack, and then complete other
