The entropy of a system depends on its internal energy and its external
parameters, such as its volume. In the thermodynamic limit, this fact leads to
an equation relating the change in the internal energy � U to changes in the
entropy and the external parameters. This relation is known as the fundamental
thermodynamic relation. If external pressure � p bears on the volume � V as the
only external parameter, this relation is:

and entropy are monotonic functions of temperature � T, implying that the
internal energy is fixed when one specifies the entropy and the volume, this
relation is valid even if the change from one state of thermal equilibrium to
another with infinitesimally larger entropy and volume happens in a
non-quasistatic way (so during this change the system may be very far out of
thermal equilibrium and then the whole-system entropy, pressure, and
temperature may not exist).

The fundamental thermodynamic relation implies many thermodynamic identities
that are valid in general, independent of the microscopic details of the
system. Important examples are the Maxwell relations and the relations between
heat capacities.

Entropy in chemical thermodynamics Thermodynamic entropy is central in chemical
thermodynamics, enabling changes to be quantified and the outcome of reactions
predicted. The second law of thermodynamics states that entropy in an isolated
system – the combination of a subsystem under study and its surroundings –
increases during all spontaneous chemical and physical processes. The Clausius
describes the direction and quantifies the magnitude of simple changes such as
heat transfer between systems – always from hotter to cooler spontaneously.
